Corporate profile

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“OOIL”),  a  company  with  US$6.0  billion  in  total  revenues,  has  principal  business 
activities in container transport and logistics services. Listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, the OOIL Group has more 
than 320 offices in 70 countries.

Orient Overseas Container Line and OOCL are trade names for transportation provided separately by Orient Overseas Container 
Line Limited (“OOCLL”) and OOCL (Europe) Limited respectively and both are wholly-owned subsidiaries of OOIL. OOCL is 
one of the world’s largest integrated international transportation, logistics and terminal companies, and is an industry leader in 
the  use  of  information  technology  and  e-commerce  to  manage  the  entire  cargo  transport  process.  OOCL’s  modern  fleet  today 
includes  some  of  the  youngest,  largest,  fuel  efficient,  and  environmentally-friendly  vessels  carrying  cargo  on  hundreds  of  trade 
routes around the world, providing a vital link in Global Trade.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2015

Contents

Significant Events – 2015

  1  Contents
  2  Financial Highlights

  6  Chairman’s Letter
  10  Operations Review
  13  Major Customers and Suppliers
  20  Corporate Responsibility
  28  Financial Review
  44  Board of Directors
Senior Management

Shareholder Section
Financial Calendar

Shareholder Information
  53  Corporate Governance Report
  74  Report of the Directors

Index – Financial Information
Independent Auditor’s Report

  84  Financial Statements

 148  Other Information

Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and
Joint Ventures

  152  Corporate Information

Fleet and Container Information
10-Year Financial Summary

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Increase/
(decrease) %

Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share (L.H.S.)
Return on Average Ordinary Shareholders’ Equity (R.H.S.)

Consolidated profit and loss
Revenue
Operating profit
Revaluation of Wall Street Plaza
Finance costs
Profit for the year
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Liquid assets
Property, plant and equipment
Total assets
Borrowings
Total liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity
Consolidated Net Cash flow
Operating activities
Investing activities
Financing activities
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
Key ratios
Operating profit margin
Gross debt to equity
Net debt to equity
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
Net asset value per ordinary share (US dollar)

Profit for the year (L.H.S.)
Operating profit margin (R.H.S.)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Financial HighlightsJanuary  1  
OOCL celebrated the christening of the 8,888 TEU newbuilding, m.v. OOCL Taipei, on 
January 6 at a naming ceremony held on Changxing Island in Shanghai and the vessel 
was named by Sponsor Mrs. Mylene Seah, wife of Mr. Peter Seah, Chairman of DBS 
Bank Limited.

february
OOCL Logistics opened a new dedicated warehouse strategically located near the 
Lat Krabang Inland Container Depot (ICD) in Thailand with convenient access to 
the Suvarnabhumi Airport and Laem Chabang Seaport.

March  2 3
On  March  3,  John  Deere  and  Company 
awarded  OOCL  with  their  Five-Year 
“Hall  of  Fame”  designation  at  the  John 
Deere  Achieving  Excellence  Awards 
banquet  held  in  Bettendorf,  Iowa.  The 
award  recognizes  OOCL’s  commitment 
to  customers  through  evaluating  areas 
such  as  service  quality  and  delivery 
performance over the last 5 years.

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited 
and  its  subsidiaries  announced  a  profit 
attributable  to  equity  holders  for  2014  of 
US$270.5  million,  compared  to  a  profit 
of US$47.0 million in 2013 in its full year 
results announcement.

OOCL  won  the  ‘Best  Green  Business 
Award’  for  Green  Management  &  Future 
Leadership  at  the  Golden  Globe  Tigers 
Summit  and  Awards  2015  event  held  in 
Kuala  Lumpur,  Malaysia.  The  Golden 
Globe  Tigers  Award  is  organized  by  the 
Asian  Confederation  of  Business,  World 
CSR, CMO Council and CMO Asia.

The 8,888 TEU newbuilding, m.v. OOCL 
Utah,  was  christened  on  March  31  at 
a  ceremony  held  on  Changxing  Island 
in  Shanghai.  The  vessel  was  named 
by  Sponsor  Mrs.  Nancy  Hale  who  was 
joined  by  her  husband  and  our  Guest  of 
Honour Mr. Val Hale, Executive Director 
of  Utah  Governor’s  Office  of  Economic 
Development.

O O C L   p l a c e d   a n   o r d e r   f o r   t h e 
construction  of  six  20,000  TEU  class 
vessels with Samsung Heavy Industries in 
Korea to strengthen fleet competitiveness.

april
OOCL  appointed  ‘Orient  Overseas 
Cargo  Line  Co.’  (OSAU)  as  the  new 
agent  in  Saudi  Arabia  to  offer  a 
variety  of  liner  services  and  provide 
a  vital  link  to  world  trade,  bridging 
Middle East-Gulf and China markets 
and beyond.
OOCL (Myanmar) Limited (OMMR) 
was  established  in  Myanmar  on 
April  1  to  provide  a  comprehensive 
liner  service network to  the  growing 
market in the country.
OOCL  became  a  signatory  of  the 
Shenzhen  Port  Green  Convention 
that  encourages  ocean  going  vessels 
to voluntarily use fuel with a sulphur 
content  of  less  than  0.5%  when 
berthed  at  the  participating  ports  in 
Shenzhen.

May  4 5 6
OOCL  proudly  received  the  2014 
Hong  Kong  Awards  for  Environmental 
Excellence  Gold  Award  in  the  Transport 
and  Logistics  Sector  category  from  the 
Honourable  Mr.  C.  Y.  Leung,  Chief 
Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region.  The  Award 
recognizes  OOCL’s  commitment  to 
achieving  environmental  objectives 
through  the  entire  organization  such  as 
initiatives  taken  to  sustain  progressive 
environmental  improvements  and 
working  with  partner  organizations  to 
establish  synergies  to  adopting  greener 
business models and operations.

OOCL’s subsidiary Long Beach Container 
Terminal  (LBCT)  was  honoured  by 
California’s  leading  environmental 
advocacy  group  Coalition  for  Clean 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Significant events – 20154

Air  (CCA)  with  their  top  award  for 
environmental  stewardship.    The  award 
recognizes LBCT’s efforts on the Middle 
Harbor  Redevelopment  Project  that 
will  transform  two  antiquated  terminal 
facilities  into  the  one  of  the  most 
competitive,  environmentally-friendly 
and technologically-advanced terminal in 
the United States.

June  7
OOCL was voted the ‘Best Shipping Line – Transpacific’ by Asia Cargo News readers 
and  was  awarded  with  the  title  at  the  2015  Asia  Freight,  Logistics  and  Supply  Chain 
Awards (AFLAS) ceremony in Hong Kong on June 24.
OOCL  was  accredited  by  Lloyd’s  Register,  an  independent  business  assurance  service 
provider,  for  environmental  data  integrity  and  achieving  dual  reporting  standards 
through  the  use  of  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  (CCWG)  and  ISO  14064-1:2006 
verification tools.
OOCL Logistics was commissioned to manage the supply chain of a landmark energy 
and infrastructure project launched by China and Pakistan towards the establishment 
of  a  China-Pakistan  Economic  Corridor  to  further  promote  trade  between  the  two 
countries.
OOCL  Logistics  sets  up  a  strategic  multi-block  logistics  centre  in  the  East  Zone  of 
Guangzhou  Economic  &  Technological  Development  District  to  cater  for  growth  and 
provide quality logistics services in the booming e-commerce market in the region. The 
new  logistics  center  will  be  operational  by  January  2016  and  is  in  close  proximity  of 
the ports of Guangzhou and Shenzhen West and well connected to the road networks 
covering South-West and Central China.

July
C a r g o S m a r t   a n n o u n c e d   t h e 
launch  of  Big  Schedules,  a  new 
and  powerful  search  engine  that 
leverages  Big  Data  to  provide  best-
in-class  sailing  schedule  information 
for  shippers  and  logistics  service 
providers  who  want  deeper  insights 
into  their  shipment  planning  to 
improve  operational  efficiency  and 
management.

august  8 9
Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  and  its  subsidiaries  announced  a  profit 
attributable to equity holders of US$238.6 million for the six-month period ended June 
30, 2015, compared with US$181.3 million for the same period in 2014 in its interim 
results announcement. 
The  m.v.  OOCL  Genoa  was  christened  at  a  ceremony  held  on  Changxing  Island  in 
Shanghai on August 26 and was named by Sponsor Mrs. Tamiko Onaka, wife of Mr. 
Koichi  Onaka,  Managing  Executive  Officer  of  Sumitomo  Mitsui  Trust  Bank,  Japan 
in  the  presence  of  our  Guest  of  Honour,  Mr.  Hisanaga  Tanimura,  CEO  of  Financial 
Products Group Co., Ltd.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Significant events – 2015OOCL  received  the  2015  Singapore 
Environmental  Achievement  Award 
(Regional) (SEAA) at a ceremony held by 
the Singapore Environment Council (SEC) 
that  honours  outstanding  organizations 
and  companies  for  their  overall 
environmental  stewardship,  management 
and performance as well as leadership and 
innovation in sustainability.
September
On  September  12,  CargoSmart 
o r g a n i z e d   a   “ B i g   D a t a ,   B i g 
Opportunities”  Conference  at  the 
Hong Kong Science Park that attracted 
more  than  500  participants  from 
the  local  community  to  the  event, 
showcasing  CargoSmart’s  cloud-based 
big  data  analytics  capabilities  while 
encouraging the younger generation to 
contribute  and  learn  more  about  the 
shipping industry.

october  10 11 12
OOCL received the Asian Responsible Business Leadership Award for “Environmental 
Sustainability  –  Environmental  Leadership”  and  the  Asian  Green  Future  Leadership 
Award for “Best Green Employee Engagement” organized by the Asian Confederation 
of Businesses and CMO Asia in Dubai.

OOCL  received  the  final  8,888  TEU 
class  containership,  the  m.v.  OOCL 
Ho  Chi  Minh  City,  in  the  line  of  eight 
ordered  from  the  Hudong-Zhonghua 
Shipbuilding  shipyard  at  a  christening 
ceremony  held  on  Changxing  Island  in 
Shanghai  on  October  29.  OOCL  was 
honoured  to  have  the  chairlady  of  Nine 
Dragons  Paper  Group  Ms.  Cheung  Yan 
as  Sponsor,  who  gave  her  blessings  to 
the vessel and crew.

November
To  further  strengthen  and  broaden 
its  footprint  in  e-commerce,  OOCL 
Logistics  collaborates  with  Alibaba 
Group  to  provide  L ess-t han-
Container-Load  (LCL)  transport 
services from China to USA, Canada, 
Australia, Japan and the Netherlands.

December
On  D ecemb er  31,  t he  Group 
announced the re-designation of Mr. 
Alan Tung as Chief Financial Officer 
with effect from January 1, 2016.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Significant events – 2015“ 2016 has so far been characterised by great uncertainty. 
We believe that our longstanding and consistent approach 
to yield and cost management will position us well to face 
the challenges of the coming year.”

Tung Chee Chen
Chairman and CEO

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Chairman’s letterAt  the  start  of  2015,  container  shipping 
companies  enjoyed  unforeseen  conditions  that 
were,  almost  without  exception,  positive.  For 
those  few  months,  substantially  lower  fuel  costs 
and  gains  in  momentum  in  the  US  recovery 
drove industry-wide results that were better than 
anticipated.

Unfortunately,  the  economic  context  became 
increasingly  complicated  as  the  year  progressed. 
The  fall  in  oil  prices  led  to  a  reduction  in 
energy-related  capital  expenditure,  and  to 
some  producers  bordering  on  default.  Trade 
growth  was  limited,  and  the  Fed  was  signalling 
(and  eventually  implemented)  a  start  to  the 
normalisation  of  interest  rates.  The  second  half 
of  the  year  saw  retail  sales  stagnating  further, 
thereby reducing imports from Asia.

By the end of the year, the worsening imbalance 
in  supply  and  demand,  driven  by  large  amounts 
of  new  tonnage  being  introduced  at  a  time  of 
lacklustre  volume  growth  in  many  trades  and 
even  shrinkage  in  others  was  having  a  dramatic 
effect. Capacity had started to be taken out of the 
market in response to slower demand growth, and 
having  witnessed  a  substantial  fall  in  rates,  lines 
were forced to surrender all of (or more than) the 
benefit of lower fuel prices to their customers.

Against  this  unsettled  background,  I  am 
pleased  to  report  that  OOIL  generated  a  profit 

attributable to shareholders for 2015 of US$283.9 
million  (2014:  US$270.5  million),  with  2015 
earnings  per  ordinary  share  of  US45.4  cents 
(2014: US43.2 cents).

The Board of Directors recommends the payment 
of  a  final  ordinary  dividend  of  US1.85  cents 
(HK$0.145) per share to shareholders for 2015.

As  for  2016,  the  first  quarter  has  so  far  been 
characterised  by  great  uncertainty.  The  IMF 
forecast  for  global  economic  growth  has  been 
reduced.  The  US  economic  recovery  seems  to 
be  solid,  but  not  spectacular,  and  continues  to 
be  influenced  by  external  factors.  Both  Japanese 
and  European  growth  levels  are  low,  with  few 
predicting  with  any  confidence  that  the  corner 
will  be  turned  in  2016.  Chinese  growth  has 
continued  to  slow,  presenting  challenges  to 
emerging  market  and  commodity  economies. 
A  number  of  central  banks  are  entering  into 
uncharted territory by imposing negative interest 
rates.  Even  if  at  a  lower  rate  than  in  2015,  new 
shipping capacity continues to be introduced.

In  this  environment,  it  is  entirely  conceivable 
that freight rates might fall even further in some 
trades,  to  a  point  where  liner  operators,  facing 
poor market demand, and in order to reduce the 
magnitude of losses, have to reduce further their 
deployed capacity.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Chairman’s LetterTo  face  the  challenges  of  the  market,  our 
consistent  approach  over  many  years  has  been 
to  drive  cost  efficiency  and  to  find  new  ways  to 
reduce our own operating costs.

Scale  will  continue  to  be  a  key  driver  of 
sustainability  in  the  industry.  A  key  part  of  how 
OOCL achieves scale is through having the right 
fleet, with modern and fuel efficient vessels built 
to  the  right  size  and  specifications,  driving  unit 
cost  efficiency  even  at  today’s  lower  fuel  prices. 
As announced in April 2015 and reported at the 
half  year,  the  group  has  ordered  six  20,000  TEU 
class  vessels  from  Samsung  Heavy  Industries  to 
be  delivered  in  2017.  We  are  delighted  with  the 
better-than-expected  efficiency  gains  achieved 
through our 13,208 TEU vessels replacing smaller 
vessels  on  certain  routes,  and  look  forward  to 
enhancing these benefits of scale further with our 
larger vessels, as they enter into service in 2017.

OOCL  has  participated  in  alliances,  in  one 
form  or  another,  for  decades.  We  continue  to 
believe  that  alliance  structures  are  an  important 
means of achieving scale and enhancing product 
quality.  OOCL  continuously  seeks  to  identify 
opportunities  for  additional  efficiencies  and 
savings through these arrangements.

One  of  the  major  forces  behind  our  ability  to 
navigate  the  challenging  waters  of  container 
shipping  is  our  industry-leading  information 

technology, which enables us to drive the highest 
levels  of  cost  efficiency.  The  group  remains 
committed  to  investing  in  IT,  and  to  continuing 
to  enhance  the  capabilities  that  our  systems  give 
us  in  operational  efficiency,  yield  management, 
customer interaction and shipment transparency. 
We continue to explore new and innovative ways 
to  improve  and  upgrade  our  systems,  including 
using  forward-looking  data  and  predictive 
analytics, which should enable us to make further 
progress in efficiency and profitability.

We   e x p e c t   t h a t   o u r   M i d d l e   H a r b o r 
Redevelopment  Project  in  California  will  enter 
into  the  first  phase  of  its  operation  in  2016. 
While  the  final  completion  of  the  project  is  not 
scheduled to occur until 2020, we fully anticipate 
that even from 2016 we will start to reap benefits 
from  this  large  capital  investment.  Our  new 
terminal  will  be  able  to  ensure  the  highest 
levels  not  only  of  operational  efficiency  but  of 
environmental friendliness and sustainability.

OOCL  Logistics  continues  to  grow  its  volumes 
and  profitability,  and  we  remain  committed  to 
building  up  our  activities  in  this  sphere.  Our 
logistics  business  shares  the  OOCL  philosophy 
of  providing  excellent  service  to  our  customers, 
and  of  doing  so  by  providing  a  chosen  range 
of  services  in  targeted  markets  and  with 
specific  customer  bases  that  will  together  drive 
profitability and growth for our shareholders.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Chairman’s LetterA feature of our group has for many years been a 
robust  and  conservative  balance  sheet.  While  we 
have  appetite  to  invest  and  to  grow,  and  thereby 
to  enhance  shareholder  returns,  we  intend  to 
maintain  a  balance  sheet  that  enables  us  to 
withstand  the  volatility  and  cyclicality  of  our 
industry.

OOCL  has  a  long  track  record  of  outperforming 
the  market,  in  both  up  and  down  cycles. 
Through  our  continued  efforts  in  yield  and  cost 
management,  as  well  in  operational  efficiency 
and  customer  focus,  the  Group  continues  to  be 
an  industry  leader.  Furthermore,  we  continue  to 
be one of the few carriers with a history of solid 
financial performance as well as a robust balance 
sheet.

We  believe  that  we  are  well  positioned  to  face 
the coming challenging year, as well as to benefit 
from  the  up  cycle  when  it  comes.  We  look 
forward  to  furthering  our  position  as  one  of  the 
leading carriers in the industry.

C C tung
Chairman
Hong Kong, 4th March 2016

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Chairman’s Letter“ OOCL has a long track record of outperforming 
the market, in both up and down cycles.  
Through our continued efforts in yield and cost 
management, as well in operational efficiency 
and customer focus, the Group continues to be 
an industry leader.”

10 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Operations ReviewCoNtaiNer traNSport aND loGiStiCS
Expectations for 2015 in the container shipping industry had been 
cautious. The known introduction of significant amounts of new 
capacity  against  an  environment  of  less  than  stellar  global  trade 
growth had meant that no-one was forecasting that 2015 would 
produce especially strong results.

However, the year started very well, and for its first few months 
seemed  only  to  improve.  East  West  trade  volumes  held  up,  the 
freight  rate  environment  was  steady,  and  shipyards  had  not 
yet  delivered  the  1.6  million  TEU  of  new  capacity  that  would 
drive  a  gross  increase  of  8.5%  in  fleet  capacity  later  in  the  year. 
The  congestion  seen  in  the  West  Coast  of  the  US  resulted  in 
capacity being drawn to the East Coast to serve shippers seeking 
alternative  solutions,  thereby  absorbing  what  might  otherwise 
have  risked  being  surplus.  Furthermore,  fuel  prices  were 
continuing to plummet. OOCL’s average fuel cost per metric ton 
in  2014  had  been  US$572,  whereas  during  the  first  quarter  of 
2015, the spot price for Singapore 380 Bunker Fuel was hovering 
around the US$300 mark.

Financial results announced for the half year showed that OOCL 
along  with  almost  all  of  its  peers  had  enjoyed  a  successful  start 
to  the  year.  By  the  middle  of  the  year,  trends  had  started  to 
appear  that  eventually  developed  into  the  very  different  market 
environment of the second half.

As summer progressed, it became clear that growth in European 
trade  was  persistently  negative.  Trade  growth  to  the  US  was 
positive and indeed robust, even if not spectacular. The picture in 
the Intra-Asia trade was as varied as the different markets within 
the region, but overall the growth was present, but weak. Cargo 
growth  between  China  and  South  East  Asia  remained  strong, 
while traffic in other parts of Asia was mostly flat. Traffic to the 
Middle  East,  which  had  been  convincingly  positive  in  the  first 
half,  slowed  down  markedly  in  the  second  half.  Volumes  to  the 
Indian sub-continent continued to grow throughout the year.

The long-expected capacity growth had started to weigh heavily 
on the market by mid-year. Not only in Asia Europe, where most 
of  the  over  800,000  TEU  of  new  container  ships  of  over  10,000 
TEU  were  being  introduced,  but  also  in  other  trades,  where 
cascading was bringing in additional capacity.

Low  fuel  costs,  while  most  definitely  overall  a  positive  for  the 
group, also contributed to challenges in the industry in the second 
half.  New  services  could  be  introduced  by  competitors  with 
lower cost risk, thereby enabling them to add capacity to already 
well  supplied  markets.  Low  vessel  charter  rates  exacerbated  this 
effect.  The  industry  saw  several  examples  of  new  services  being 
introduced, only for these to be cut back later in the year, when 
cargo growth failed to match the increase in capacity.

Furthermore, lower fuel prices meant that operators of older, less 
fuel-efficient  vessels  could  continue  to  operate  them  without  it 
being  financially  prohibitive  –  this,  along  with  low  steel  prices, 
will likely have contributed to the low level of fleet scrapping seen 
during 2015.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Operations ReviewCongestion  and  disruption  that  had  particularly  affected  the 
network  towards  the  end  of  2014  began  to  clear  up  during  the 
first  months  of  2015.  While  there  were  instances  of  congestion 
towards  the  end  of  the  year,  the  impact  was  far  more  localised, 
and  certainly  not  on  the  scale  that  was  seen  in  2014,  where  at 
different times disruption had been seen in Europe, Asia and on 
the US West Coast.

OOCL operates alongside Hapag-Lloyd, NYK, Mitsui OSK Lines, 
Hyundai  Merchant  Marine  and  APL  in  the  G6  alliance.  2015 
saw  the  first  full  year  of  operation  of  the  G6  as  a  global  East-
West  alliance,  along  with  impressive  improvements  in  alliance 
operational performance, assisted by the G6’s Joint Service Centre 
in Singapore.

One  notable  development  during  2015  has  been  increasing 
trade  imbalance.  For  example,  the  Trans-Atlantic  trade  has  for 
many  years  been  balanced  between  eastbound  and  westbound 
cargos. As the growth rates of the European and North American 
economies have diverged, as well of course as their currencies, we 
have seen higher volumes of westbound cargo. Within the Intra-
Asia  trade,  the  strength  of  the  US  Dollar  against  a  number  of 
Asian currencies, and the movements in the RMB, have increased 
southbound  trade  and  put  pressure  on  northbound.  Managing 

the effect of such imbalances is a challenge for container shipping 
companies, but one for which OOCL is well prepared.

At  the  start  of  2015,  no-one  expected  just  how  positive  the 
first  few  months  would  be.  However,  despite  the  unanticipated 
strength  of  the  opening  months  of  the  year,  OOCL  remained 
cautious throughout the first half, with this caution being shown 
to be justified as the year drew to a close.

For the full year 2015, OOCL’s liftings were essentially flat, with a 
drop in revenue, and of revenue per TEU of 10%. This reflects the 
challenging environment described above, particularly as the very 
tough second half took hold.

In spite of this, OOCL remained profitable throughout the reporting 
period. This was due to a variety of reasons, including our consistent 
efforts to maintain close attention to cost management, for example 
our ability to generate savings not simply by enjoying the same fall 
in fuel prices as everyone else but by ensuring maximum efficiency 
in  fuel  consumption  per  TEU.  The  combination  of  this  long-
established  approach  with  our  state-of-the-art  IT  system,  which 
strengthens operational performance as well as facilitating the best 
yield management and other financial decisions, has enabled us to 
resist the headwinds of the current situation.

ooCl liner

Total

12 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Growth in 2015
revenue

revenue/teU

Operations Review 

Trade
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia/Australasia
Total

liftiNG (’000 teU)

Variance

reVeNUe (US$ million)

Variance

intra-asia and australasia – The many lanes that make up the 
Intra-Asia and Australasian trades performed very differently. 
However,  additional  capacity  and  cascading  of  larger  vessels 
from other trades has created challenging conditions at a time 
when growth is slower in many countries, and even shrinking 
in others. The low fuel price environment has led not only to 
more  services  being  introduced,  but  to  an  increase  in  direct 
services  as  opposed  to  transhipment.  OOCL  was  quick  to 
adapt  to  these  changes,  for  example  reworking  its  Japanese 
network in order to improve shipping times, transit times and 
schedule reliability. The drop in value of the Australian Dollar, 
and the impact of the fall in commodity prices, are thought to 
have  contributed  to  a  continuing  environment  of  largely  flat 
growth  in  cargo  to  Australia,  although  an  improved  supply 
and demand balance following service changes could generate 
some improvement.

MaJor CUStoMerS aND SUpplierS
Approximately  7.5%  and  20.1%  of  the  Group’s  total 
expenditure  on  purchases  of  goods  and  services  for  the 
year are attributable to the largest supplier and five largest 
suppliers respectively. 

Approximately 1.5% and 5.2% of the Group’s total reported 
revenues for the year are attributable to the largest customer 
and five largest customers respectively.

The  Group  has  entered  into  slot  sharing  arrangements 
with other container shipping companies. The receipts and 
payments  from  slot  sharing  arrangements  have  not  been 
included in determining the major customers and suppliers 
since  it  would  be  misleading  to  do  so  as  the  receipts  and 
payments  are  in  respect  of  sharing  arrangements  for  the 
utilisation of vessel space.

No director or any of his associates holds any equity interest 
in the suppliers or customers included above.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

trans-pacific  –  While  the  global  expectation  at  the  start  of 
2015 was cautious, there was more optimism in the outlook for 
the  eastbound  Trans-Pacific  trade.  The  US  recovery  appeared 
to  be  solid,  and  the  rate  environment  was  encouraging. 
Disruption in the West Coast ports led to significant volumes 
of cargo shifting to the East Coast, causing a short-term spike 
in East Coast rates. Much of that cargo pattern has returned to 
the West Coast, but its return co-incided with the introduction 
of  additional  capacity  into  the  market  and  with  a  gradual 
decrease  in  the  rate  of  cargo  growth.  As  a  result,  even  if  the 
rate environment appears sustainable, there was no significant 
“peak  season”  to  the  West  Coast  in  2015,  and  performance 
remained steady. Westbound volumes and rates lost some pace 
as the year progressed, affected both by the strength of the US 
Dollar and by reductions in imports to Asia.

asia-europe  –  For  the  industry  as  a  whole,  Asia-Europe  has 
been one of the best performing trades in recent years. Its very 
different performance this year has been the main news story 
of container shipping in recent months. Volume growth was at 
best weak, with some countries performing better than others, 
but  to  Europe  overall  was  negative.  The  impact  of  the  fall  in 
the Euro, the after effects of high import volumes followed by 
low  growth,  and  the  economic  implications  of  sanctions  on 
Russia hurt demand, which was far from sufficient to keep up 
with  the  growth  on  the  supply  side.  Significant  withdrawals 
of  tonnage  towards  the  end  of  the  year  made  some  progress 
in  achieving  a  certain  level  of  improvement,  but  the  trade 
remained challenged at year end.

trans-atlantic – The Trans-Atlantic trade performed steadily 
throughout  the  year,  but  with  a  noticeable  increase  in  trade 
imbalance. Continuing the trend of 2014, imports into the US 
from  Europe  grew  while  trade  heading  in  the  other  direction 
contracted.

MariNe terMiNalS
During  2015,  OOCL  operated  two  container  terminals: 
the  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  in  California  and  the 
Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan,  with  a  total 
combined  throughput  of  2.3  million  TEU,  representing  a 
year  over  year  increase  of  about  2.7%.  Tianjin  Port  Alliance 
International  Container  Terminal  Co.,  Ltd.  and  Ningbo 
Yuandong  Terminal  Ltd.,  where  OOCL  has  a  20%  interest  in 
each, together handled about 4.9 million TEU, a 2.8% increase 
over 2014.

Middle Harbor redevelopment project
OOCL and its subsidiary LBCT continue to work with the Port 
of Long Beach (POLB) on the Middle Harbor Redevelopment 
Project  (MHRP)  in  Long  Beach,  California.  The  project  is  to 
be  developed  in  three  phases.  Extensive  equipment  testing, 
systems development and professional training were conducted 
during 2015.

As  at  the  time  of  writing,  this  process  of  testing  continues. 
An important step in the testing procedure has been that the 
m.v  OOCL  America  has  been  set  to  Long  Beach  in  order  to 
participate in end-to-end testing with a real vessel in place.

We  expect  that  the  first  phase  of  our  new  terminal  will 
become  fully  operational  in  the  middle  of  2016.  This  will  be 
a  hugely  significant  milestone  for  the  group,  and  will  bring 
into  existence  one  of  the  most  operationally  efficient  and 
environmentally  friendly  port  terminals  anywhere  in  the 
world.

Our  expanded  new  terminal  at  Long  Beach  will,  over  time, 
drive  more  and  more  benefit  for  the  group.  This  will  be 
achieved  not  only  by  cost-efficient  handling  of  calls  by  our 
own vessels and those of our alliance partners, but by opening 
up  the  possibility  of  third  party  business  and  therefore 
additional revenue streams.

14 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Operations Reviewlong  Beach  Container  terminal,  llC.  (lBCt 

location:
Long Beach, California, USA

Status of terminal:
Currently  at  98.8  acre,  to  be  expanded  into  a  304  acre,  three 
berth container facility operated under a long-term preferential 
use agreement from the Port of Long Beach.

equipment/facilities:
On  Pier  F:  one  container-vessel  berth;  seven  Post-Panamax 
quayside  container  gantry  cranes;  five  side  picks;  12 
rubber-tired  gantry  cranes;  75  yard  tractors;  11  top  handlers; 
12 utility forklifts; 56 yard chassis; various pick-up trucks and 
other vehicles and handling equipment.

On  Pier  E:  currently  two  container-vessel  berth;  six 
ship-to-shore  gantry  cranes,  38  automated  stacking  cranes, 
two  rail  yard  cranes,  75  bombcarts,  one  reach  stacker,  one 
combi-lift  straddle  carrier,  40  yard  tractors,  four  heavy  lifts, 
one  fuel  truck,  56  pickup  trucks,  one  tour  bus,  two  shuttle 
buses and two telehandlers.

Building facilities:
13,000 sq ft main office building; 3,200 sq ft marine operations 
building; 9,600 sq ft repair shop.

principal Customers:
APL, Hapag Lloyd, HMM, MOL, NYK and OOCL.

Kaohsiung Container terminal (KaoCt)

location:
Pier 65 and 66 Kaohsiung Harbour, Kaohsiung, Taiwan

Status of terminal:
As  one  of  the  original  container  facilities  in  the  Kaohsiung 
Harbour,  the  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  has  deep-water 
berths  of  14.5  meters  and  the  entire  facility  has  been 
modernized since 2002 and upgraded in 2012 with the ability 
to  handle  two  10,000-TEU  vessels  at  the  same  time  or  one 
13,000, one 8000 TEU vessel.

equipment/facilities:
Two  container-vessel  berths  (760  meters  long)  on  a  total  of 
approximately  63.6  acres  operating  24-hour,  7-days  a  week 
basis  for  vessel  and  gate  activities:  Six  Post-Panamax  quay 
cranes  including  four  with  19  rows  and  two  with  22  rows  of 
twin 20 ft lifting capacity; 20 rail-mounted gantry cranes; five 
empty stackers and various shipside handling equipment.

To  further  enhance  services  and  improve  efficiency,  two 
terminal  upgrade  projects  were  carried  out  which  included 
the  completion  of  an  expansion  of  the  container  storage 
area  ZONE  6  by  1,500  TEU  in  January  2014  and  an  empty 
storage  area  ZONE  7  by  4,000  TEU  in  April  2015.  After  the 
completion  of  these  projects,  the  rail-mounted  gantry  cranes 
will be able to handle 1.5 million TEU per annum and carbon 
emission will be further reduced.

Building facilities (approximate area):
2,948 sqm office building, 7,000 sqm container freight station, 
720 sqm maintenance building.

principal Customers:
ANL,  APL,  COSCO,  CSCL,  EMC,  HPL,  HYMM,  IRISL, 
MOSK,  NYK,  OOCL,  PIL,  WHL,  YML,  ZIM  and  various 
feeder operators.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Operations ReviewSHip operatioNS
As at 31st December, 2015, OOCL fleet composition was as follows:

fleet
Owned/
  Long Term Chartered/
  Operating Lease
Short Term Chartered
Chartered Out
Operating Capacity

No. of Vessels

teU Capacity

During  the  year  of  2015,  the  Group  took  delivery  of  four 
SX  class  8,888  TEU  new  vessels  from  Hudong-Zhonghua 
Shipbuilding (Group) Co., Ltd in China. They are also the last 
four vessels for the series.

On  31st  March,  2015,  orders  for  six  20,000  TEU  class  vessels 
were placed with Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. in South 
Korea for delivery in year 2017.

To optimise fleet utilisation, two 11-year old 8,063 TEU SX-class 
vessels  were  sold  and  chartered  back  for  a  three-year  period 
during the year.

As of the end of 2015, OOCL owned vessels with an average age 
of 6.64 years and an average size of 7,548 TEU.
Bunker Saving
The  fall  in  market  fuel  price  enabled  us  to  achieve  very 
significant bunker cost savings throughout the year.

In  accordance  with  the  new  MARPOL  Annex  VI  ultra-low 
sulphur  fuel  regulations  (in  force  as  from  1st  January,  2015), 
our  vessels  are  required  to  comply  with  0.1%  sulphur  content 

regulations  in  the  designated  Sulphur  Emission  Control  Areas 
(SECAs). This has led to an increase in the proportion of our fuel 
consumption that is made up of higher grade and lower polluting 
fuel. The cost impact of this is already included in our numbers.

We  will  retain  our  dedicated  focus  on  a  range  of  efficiency 
measures in order to ensure the highest levels of fuel efficiency. 
For example, optimal routing, carefully calculated sailing speeds, 
efficient use of shaft generators, carrying minimum ballast and 
employing optimal trim.

Beyond  ensuring  that  we  operate  a  modern  and  efficient  fleet, 
an  important  success  factor  in  managing  our  fuel  cost  is  the 
expertise and dedication of our staff, who use their experience 
not  only  to  comply  with  existing  guidelines  but  to  ensure  that 
new  opportunities  to  achieve  savings  are  fully  explored  and, 
where appropriate, implemented.
environmental protection
We  remain  very  supportive  of  international  efforts  to  measure 
and  control  shipboard  emissions.  In  2015,  we  maintained  an 
average  sulphur  content  of  2.32%  in  our  bunker  consumption 
which  compares  favourably  with  the  International  Maritime 
Organization (IMO) prescribed standard of 3.5%. Aside from the 
installation  of  Alternative  Maritime  Power  (AMP)  system  that 
allows  shore-based  power  alternatives,  our  newbuildings  have 
been equipped with Ballast Water Treatment systems to effectively 
treat ballast water that is in line with our environmental policy. A 
retrofit program is also underway to allow some of our existing 
vessels to improve fuel efficiency and so to reduce emissions.

In addition to regulatory compliance, we have been participating 
in  various  voluntary  programs  including  the  Green  Flag 
Program  at  the  Port  of  Long  Beach,  Vessel  Speed  Reduction 
Program  at  the  Port  of  Los  Angeles,  and  the  Shenzhen  Port 
Green  Convention  initiated  by  the  Shenzhen  Transportation 
Commission (SZMOT) in China.

16 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Operations ReviewFor  our  international  supply  chain  business,  we  have 
improved  standardisation  of  our  service  quality  globally  to 
each customer. For import and export business, we expanded 
our  carrier  portfolio  and  network,  in  order  to  be  able  to 
offer  customers  one-stop-shop  total  solutions  with  better 
service coverage and frequency, and focused on project cargo 
transportation.  In  terms  of  domestic  logistics,  we  further 
developed our cold chain logistics business, streamlined Less-
Than-Truck-Load  (LTL)  services,  and  moved  deeper  into  the 
transportation services and warehouse markets of second and 
third tier cities in China and other parts of Asia.

By leveraging on our superior IT capabilities and management 
expertise,  our  value-added  services  are  integrated  into  our 
customers’  supply  chain  operations,  and  assist  them  in 
enhancing their productivity and organisational efficiency.

loGiStiCS

The gross profit margin achieved by OOCL Logistics improved 
by  7.4%,  which  can  be  attributed  to  our  approach  to  select 
the  right  business  mix  in  the  right  locations  and  with  the 
right  customers.  Specifically,  we  have  made  this  progress  by 
focusing more on higher value added business in international 
supply  chain  management  services  and  import  and  export 
services, and deselecting a certain proportion of non-profitable 
domestic logistics business in China.

The  growth  in  profitability  came  at  the  expense  of  a  2.9% 
revenue  decrease,  reflecting  the  reduced  emphasis  on  more 
commoditised domestic logistics business.

In  addition  to  selecting  the  right  business  targets,  our  yield 
management  has  assisted  by  further  enhanced  levels  of 
operational productivity, cost control and asset efficiency.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Operations ReviewOperations.  Advances  in  this  area  will  assist  carriers  to 
monitor  fuel  efficiency  and  other  key  performance  metrics 
of vessels, and to act on the information garnered.

CargoSmart  has  also  developed  the  technology  to  allow 
customers to access data on multiple-carrier shipments. The 
group’s  OOCL.com  is  the  first  website  to  implement  this 
customer-friendly innovation.

Furthermore,  CargoSmart  provides  a  platform  solution  for 
G6 Alliance Slot Cost Allocation and Settlement (ASM) and 
Alliance Vessel Schedule Maintenance (VSM).

iNforMatioN teCHNoloGY
The  Group  continues  to  invest  in  information  technology, 
in order to generate a sustainable competitive advantage for 
our activities.

By  the  end  2015,  the  global  implementation  of  the  IRIS-4 
Liner enterprise system had started to reach its final phases. 
We  expect  that  its  forerunner,  the  IRIS-2  system,  will  be 
shutdown during 2016.

In  order  to  reach  “Software  Defined”  grade,  and  to  attain 
even  greater  levels  of  flexibility  and  elasticity  to  adapt  to 
evolving  business  needs,  we  began  a  progamme  to  rebuild 
our Data Centre and International Network infrastructure.

Through  multiple  experiments  in  three  countries  in  2015, 
the first iteration of an Intelligent Assembly Line for Bill of 
Lading production was commissioned, delivering high levels 
of  service  and  quality  assurance.  Further  opportunities  to 
expand  the  scope  of  the  use  of  Intelligent  Assembly  Lines 
will  be  explored  in  2016,  opening  up  the  possibility  of 
ongoing efficiency and cost gains.

The  Group’s  subsidiary,  CargoSmart,  a  standalone  third 
party  business  platform,  is  expanding  the  concept  of 
the  “Internet  of  Things”  to  cover  areas  such  as  Marine 

18 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Operations ReviewpropertY
Based on an independent valuation as at 31st December 2015, 
Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  upwards  by  US$20  million, 
reflecting  an  assessed  market  value  of  US$200  million.  After 
offsetting a total of US$0.5 million improvement works on the 
building in 2015, the net fair value gain for 2015 has come to 
US$19.5 million.

As  at  31st  December  2014,  Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  at 
US$180 million with a net fair value gain of US$9.7 million in 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Operations Review“ The Group is dedicated to promoting sustainable 
practices in our supply chain. We encourage 
sustainable economic development through 
innovative environmental care measures.”

20 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate ResponsibilityCorporate ResponsibilityThe Group prides itself upon being a responsible 
corporate citizen and it employs the highest 
standards of business ethics in all that it does. 
Headed by a senior management Steering 
Committee and a Global Security, Safety 
and Environment Care Officer, the Group 
embraces the core values of Corporate Social 
Responsibility at all levels.

The  Group  places  the  utmost  importance  on  environmental 
care  and  community  support.  Despite  the  current  difficult 
economic  environment,  we  must  continue  to  address  the 
long-term threat of climate change. We strive to play our part 
in  tackling  this  global  problem  through  engagement  with 
organisations  such  as  the  Business  Environment  Council, 
the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  and  the  World  Wildlife 
Fund.  Throughout  the  year,  the  Group  has  won  awards  and 
accolades for its environmental performance, and OOIL Group 
employees  around  the  world  have  been  actively  supporting 
their  local  communities  through  various  environmental 
initiatives.

The  Group  is  dedicated  to  promoting  sustainable  practices 
into our supply chain. Our Corporate Sustainable Procurement 
Policy  has  been  implemented  in  every  aspect  of  our  business 
and at every stage of the supply chain. For example, under our 
vendor  and  supplier  selection  mechanism,  a  self  assessment 
of  the  potential  contractor  must  be  completed  to  confirm 
their  compliance  to  our  Safety,  Security,  Environmental  and 
Social  Guidelines,  where  on-site  verification  of  their  facilities 
may  be  conducted  if  deemed  necessary.    Once  compliance  is 
confirmed  we  would  review  and  work  with  our  vendors  to 
ensure compliance levels are maintained.

In  addition,  the  OOCL  Carbon  Calculator  is  designed  to 
assist  OOCL  customers  measure  CO2  emissions  in  their 
supply  chains.  The  scope  of  the  calculator  spans  across 
vessels,  trucks,  feeders,  and  rail  with  over  70,000  port  pairs 
recorded.  OOCL  spearheaded  the  project  in  2010,  partnering 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Corporate Responsibilityembrace  green  management  and  innovation  and  offering  the 
opportunity to benchmark their environmental performance.

In  this  seventh  annual  award,  1,048  applicants  competed 
in  15  industry  sectors.  In  considering  OOCL  for  the  gold 
standing,  the  Award  recognises  a  company’s  commitment 
and  drive  to  achieving  environmental  objectives  through  the 
entire  organisation.  This  includes  initiatives  taken  to  sustain 
progressive  environmental  improvements  and  working  with 
partner  organisations  to  establish  synergies  to  adopting 
greener business models and operations.

“Class  of  e xcellence”  Wastewi$e  l abel  –  OOCL  also 
received  environmental  recognition  for  our  participation 
and  performance  in  the  Wastewi$e  Label  Scheme  under  the 
Hong  Kong  Awards  for  Environmental  Excellence  (HKAEE) 
program. Under the Scheme, participants must achieve at least 
nine  goals  or  more,  covering  at  least  two  of  three  Wastewi$e 
categories in order to be granted with the “Class of Excellence” 
Wastewi$e Label. The three categories include Waste Avoidance 
& Reduction Measures, Collection and Recycling of Recyclable 
Materials, and Purchase or Manufacture of Recycled Products.

Singapore  environmental  achievement  award  –  OOCL 
received  the  2015  Singapore  Environmental  Achievement 
Award  (Regional)  (SEAA)  at  a  ceremony  held  by  the 
Singapore  Environment  Council’s  (SEC)  20th  Anniversary 

with the Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies of the 
Hong  Kong  Polytechnic  University.  The  Calculator  has  been 
checked and verified for its methodology, accuracy and carbon 
footprint  calculations  by  The  American  Bureau  of  Shipping 
(ABS) Consulting.

our environmental initiatives
The Group recognises that businesses must take responsibility 
for their industry’s effects on the environment. Our company 
is  dedicated  to  meeting  the  needs  of  the  present  without 
compromising  those  of  the  future.  We  encourage  sustainable 
economic  development  through  innovative  environmental 
care  measures  and  believe  that  by  taking  a  proactive  role  in 
caring for the environment, we can help minimise our carbon 
footprint,  improve  air  quality  and  make  the  world  a  better 
place to live for ourselves and future generations.

We  actively  participate  in  green  programs  and  have  received 
recognition for our achievements and best practices, including:

the Safety, Quality and environmental (SQe) Management 
System  Certificate  –  OOCL  was  the  first  container  shipping 
line  in  the  world  to  have  achieved  the  SQE  certification 
which  consolidates  the  ISM-Code,  ISO  9001  and  ISO  14001 
requirements.

Vessel  Speed  reduction  programs  –  Each  year,  OOCL  has 
been  fully  compliant  to  reducing  vessel  speed  when  entering 
within both 20 and 40 nautical miles of the Port of Long Beach 
and  Port  of  Los  Angeles  harbors.  Our  efforts  have  effectively 
contributed to improving the air quality by reducing emissions 
such as smog forming nitrogen oxides (NOx), diesel particulate 
matter and greenhouse gases. Port officials estimate that if all 
vessels comply with the program, the amount of NOx produced 
by container ships would be reduced by nearly 550 tons a year.

Ballast  Water  Management  program  –  All  container  ships 
discharge  ballast  water,  which  can  contain  organisms  that 
may  be  harmful  to  other  environments.  We  have  a  policy  of 
exchanging  ballast  water  only  in  the  open  sea  (200  nautical 
miles away from the nearest coastline) to achieve zero ballast 
water  exchange  when  berthed  at  the  port.  Although  it  is  not 
mandated by the International Maritime Organization (IMO), 
OOCL’s  new  buildings  are  already  equipped  with  an  IMO 
approved  Ballast  Water  Treatment  System  to  effectively  treat 
ballast water before discharging.

Hong  Kong  awards  for  environmental  excellence  –  Gold 
award  –  OOCL  received  2014  Hong  Kong  Awards  for 
Environmental  Excellence  (HKAEE)  Gold  Award  in  the 
Transport  and  Logistics  Sector  category  on  14th  May  2015. 
The  HKAEE  is  recognised  by  the  community  as  one  of  the 
most prestigious and reputable environmental award schemes 
in  Hong  Kong.  It  encourages  businesses  and  organisations  to 

22 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate ResponsibilityGala  on  26th  August  2015.  Recognised  by  the  community 
as  one  of  the  most  prestigious  and  reputable  environmental 
award  schemes  in  Singapore,  it  was  launched  in  November 
1997  to  honour  outstanding  organizations  and  companies 
for  their  overall  environmental  stewardship,  environmental 
management  and  performance  as  well  as  leadership  and 
innovation in sustainability.

Golden  Globe  tigers  Sustainability  award  –  OOCL  won 
the  ‘Best  Green  Business  Award’  for  Green  Management  & 
Future  Leadership  at  the  Golden  Globe  Tigers  Summit  and 
Awards  2015  event  held  in  Kuala  Lumpur,  Malaysia  on  25th 
March  2015.  The  Golden  Globe  Tigers  Award  is  organised 
by  the  Asian  Confederation  of  Business,  World  CSR,  CMO 
Council  and  CMO  Asia.  The  ‘Green  Management  &  Future 
Leadership’  award  is  for  the  organization  that  participates  in 
environmentally-friendly  or  green  activities  to  ensure  their 
business  activities  adequately  address  current  environmental 
concerns while maintaining a profit.

asian responsible Business leadership award/asian Green 
future  leadership  award  –  OOCL  won  two  sustainability 
awards  by  the  Asian  Confederation  of  Businesses  and  CMO 
Asia  on  7th  October  2015  in  Dubai.  Over  2,500  entries  were 
received  from  different  parts  of  the  world.  An  independent 
jury then shortlisted the entries and made the final selection. 
OOCL  won  awards  for  the  Asian  Responsible  Business 
Leadership  Award  for  “Environmental  Sustainability  – 
Environmental  Leadership”  and  the  Asian  Green  Future 
Leadership Award for “Best Green Employee Engagement”.

aSeaN  Corporate  Sustainability  awards  –  OOCL  received 
runner  up  in  two  awards  in  the  categories  of  Sustainability 
Strategy  and  Sustainability  Report  by  the  Academy  for 
Professional  Excellence  (APEX)  Global  at  ASEAN  Corporate 
Sustainability Summit on 27th March 2015, which recognised 
our  clear  vision  of  sustainability  strategy  with  designed 
initiatives  with  achieved  objectives;  and  our  transparent 
disclosure through sustainability report.

ooil  becomes  a  ftSe4Good  Global  index  Constituent 
–  The  FTSE4Good  Index  Series  is  one  of  the  world’s  most 
recognised  and  respected  indices  measuring  the  performance 
of  companies  demonstrating  strong  Environmental,  Social 
and  Governance  (ESG)  standards  for  investors  committed  to 
socially responsible investments.

OOIL is honoured to be the first Hong Kong-based enterprise 
in the international transportation and logistics industry to be 
included in the Index. Independently assessed according to the 
Index criteria, OOIL has met all ESG requirements to become 
a constituent of the Index following the December 2015 review, 
an  important  milestone  in  the  company’s  efforts  to  achieving 
long-term sustainability objectives.

Hang  Seng  Corporate  Sustainability  index  –  The  Group  is 
a  founding  constituent  of,  as  well  as  listed  in  the  Hang  Seng 
Corporate Sustainability Index since its establishment in 2010. 
Only  the  top  30  companies  are  listed  in  the  Index  and  they 
are  recognised  to  have  received  the  highest  scores  among  all 
others on aspects including environmental care, social impact, 
and corporate governance.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Corporate ResponsibilityQualship 21 – Offered by the US Coast Guard, this program 
recognises  high-quality  ships  for  their  excellent  safety  and 
antipollution  standards  and  encourages  quality  operations. 
Most  of  OOCL’s  vessels  calling  the  US  have  already  been 
Qualship 21 certified since 2004.

environmental  Data  Verification  –  OOCL  completed  its 
environmental  reporting  and  disclosure  assurance  by  using 
both  the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  (CCWG)  and  ISO 
14064-1  standards  to  certify  the  transparency,  accuracy, 
completeness,  consistency  and  relevance  of  OOCL’s  data 
disclosure  on  vessel  emissions.  OOCL  was  accredited  by  the 
Lloyd’s  Register  Quality  Assurance  (LRQA),  an  independent 
business  assurance  service  provider  based  in  the  United 
Kingdom, after checking not only the carbon dioxide, sulphur 
oxides and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) (Scope 1) emission levels 
of OOCL vessels, but also extending to the GHG Scope 2 level 
which  is  associated  with  electricity  consumption  of  OOCL’s 
head office in Hong Kong.

The  Group  is  committed  to  reducing  emissions,  promoting 
environmental  care  and  conserving  natural  resources.  We  do 
this in all areas of our business – on land and at sea – from our 
vessels, to our terminals, offices and containers.

our  Vessels  –  The  best  way  to  reduce  harmful  emissions  in 
the shipping industry is to reduce the consumption of fuel. For 
well over a decade OOCL implemented a fuel saving program 
including weather routing systems, slow steaming (addition of 
extra vessels on service loops and travelling at slower speeds), 
minimising ballast water to help achieve a lighter vessel load, 
and  achieving  better  trim  of  ship  draughts  by  good  stowage, 
thereby  burning  less  fuel.  By  taking  these  measures,  we  have 
reduced our CO2 emissions by more than 30% since 2004. In 
addition  to  reducing  our  emissions,  we  are  able  to  help  our 
customers  achieve  a  lower  carbon  footprint  in  their  supply 
chains.

Since  2000,  all  our  vessels  have  been  installed  with 
environment-friendly  NOx-controlled  propulsive  engines  while 
advanced slide fuel injection valves are also adopted to help reduce 
NOx emissions by 30%. All our new buildings since 2011 are also 

24 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

equipped  with  Alternative  Maritime  Power  (AMP)  Systems,  also 
known  as  “Cold  Ironing”,  which  allows  the  vessel  to  use  shore 
supplied electricity instead of burning fuel when at berth.

OOCL is fully compliant to the EU, North America and IMO 
mandated requirements of using 0.1% or lower sulphur content 
fuel  in  all  SOx  Emission  Control  Areas  (SECA).  We  are  also 
compliant  to  the  requirements  of  using  0.1%  sulphur  content 
fuel when our vessels are berthed at designated EU ports.

Moreover, OOCL is one of the leading carriers that signed on 
to  the  newly  introduced  Shenzhen  Port  Green  Convention 
initiated  by  the  Shenzhen  Transportation  Commission 
(SZMOT)  that  encourage  ocean  going  vessels  to  voluntarily 
use fuel with a sulphur content of less than 0.5% when berthed 
at the participating ports in Shenzhen.

OOCL  vessels  also  ensure  that  the  sulphur  content  of  our 
fuel is well below the IMO prescribed standard of 3.5% when 
sailing  in  the  high  seas.  In  2015,  OOCL  achieved  an  average 
sulphur content of 2.32%.

our offices – Our focus is to create and maintain a “paperless 
office”  environment  by  eliminating  the  use  of  faxes  and 
unnecessary  paper  documents.  As  a  business  which  has 
traditionally  relied  on  paper  documentation  with  customers, 
such  as  bills  of  lading  and  invoices,  we  have  successfully 
taken  innovative  measures  to  effectively  reduce  our  paper 
consumption since 2006.

We have implemented a “reduce, re-use and recycle” campaign in 
all our offices around the world, encouraging employees to switch 
off  computers  after  work,  powering  off  copiers  and  lights  after 
use, and to install energy saving office equipment, such as energy 
efficient light bulbs. We also have mandatory training for all staff 
in safety, security and environmental issues, and organise OOCL 
Green Week every July in offices around the world.

our  terminals  –  In  2015,  our  Long  Beach  Container 
Terminal  (LBCT  LLC)  continued  to  exceed  all  environmental 
requirements  by  the  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
(EPA),  the  State  of  California’s  Air  Resources  Board  (CARB), 
and the Port of Long Beach’s (POLB) Green Port Policy. Some 
of the compliance measures taken in 2015 include:

•  Deploying  newer  model  “Clean”  trucks  to  receive  and 

deliver containerized cargo;

Retrofitting container handling equipment with the latest 
“Clean  Air  Technology”  engines  or  the  latest  exhaust 
control  technologies,  as  well  as  replacing  very  old  ones 
for newer and more energy efficient equipment.

Phase  1  development  of  the  new  LBCT  Pier  E  terminal,  also 
known as the Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project (MHRP), 
has  been  designed  and  is  being  constructed  by  using  the 

Corporate Responsibilitycleanest and most efficient technologies available. Not only will 
the  MHRP  be  at  the  forefront  of  clean  technology  for  cargo 
handling, the construction equipment and processes used in the 
development also meet the highest environmental standards.

To help improve air quality and reduce emissions in the local 
community, the new terminal will be:

C er t if ied  to  me et  L e adership  in  Energ y  and 
Environmental Design (LEED) standards;

Providing  fully  electric,  emission  free  handling  of 
containers  from  vessel  to  the  truck  using  all-electric 
cranes  and  battery  powered  Automated  Guided  Vehicles 
(AGVs);

Providing electrical power to the facility at 66,000 Volts, 
ensuring  the  most  efficient  transmission  of  power  with 
the minimum possible loss levels to the terminal;

Providing  “Cold-Ironing”  facilities  to  allow  all  vessels 
to  operate  on  clean  shore  power  and  shut  down  their 
generator engines while at-berth; and

Purchasing Renewable Energy Credits.

In  2005,  our  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  (KAOCT)  in 
Taiwan  had  converted  its  entire  container  yard  to  a  ‘green’ 
enterprise  by  replacing  its  straddle  carriers  operation  with 
electric rail mounted gantry cranes (RMGs) to improve energy 
and  operational  efficiencies.  As  a  result  of  the  improvements 
made  over  the  years,  electricity  consumption  throughput 
decreased  by  15.4%,  from  17.4  kWh/TEU  in  2005  to  14.7 
kWh/TEU in 2015. Currently, there are a total of 20 electrically 
powered  RMGs  in  the  terminal  on  a  fixed-rail  system  and 
these  gantry  cranes  are  emission-free,  quiet,  and  provide  a 
much  safer  working  environment  at  the  port.  The  equipment 
has  not  only  helped  improve  energy  efficiency  but  also 
terminal efficiency as shipside productivity improved by 8.9% 
from  2005  to  2015  and  during  this  same  period,  the  annual 
throughput  also  increased  by  72%.  This  has  enabled  KAOCT 
to  effectively  handle  more  vessels  at  one  time  and  the  higher 
productivity level helped shorten the vessel berthing period to 
achieve bunker saving as well as emission reduction.

Moreover,  KAOCT  minimised  the  use  of  Side-Pickers  and 
utilised  electric-powered  RMGs  to  handle  empty  containers 
at the terminal to improve energy efficiency. When compared 
to  2007,  the  terminal  reduced  diesel  consumption  by  about 
38% last year.  In 2012, over 200 sets of lighting systems in the 
terminal  office  were  also  replaced  with  energy  efficient  LED 
technology, achieving a 59% savings on lighting electricity.

our  Containers  –  Today,  OOCL  only  uses  CFC-free 
refrigerants  for  all  of  our  refrigerated  (reefer)  containers. 
OOCL’s newest reefer containers have one of the lowest power 

consumption  in  the  industry,  and  we  install  ThermoKing 
“EcoPower”  gensets  for  better  energy  efficiency.  All  our 
containers  have  been  applied  with  tin-free  paint  and  we  have 
introduced the use of eco-friendly bamboo floorboards instead 
of the traditional hardwood ones.

The  Group’s  sustainability  and  environmentally  conscious 
practices in many aspects, often exceed legal requirements and 
general industry standards in the countries where it operates. 
As  a  responsible  and  committed  member  of  the  international 
community,  the  Group  will  continually  strive  for  further 
improvement in all aspects of its business.

Security
In  a  world  where  global  cargo  security  threats  always  increase 
the  complexities  of  the  international  trade  community,  OOCL 
is  strongly  committed  to  the  security  of  our  operations  against 
possible compromise and to the maintenance of the highest level 
of compliance in security related areas. From our offices to ports, 
warehouses,  shore  facilities  and  onboard  our  vessels,  we  work 
with the responsible authorities to ensure that every measure is in 
place to maintain the highest commercial and operational security 
standards possible at all times, while all employees are educated 
and regularly updated through security training.

The Group’s Corporate Security Policy and internal guidelines 
comply  with  the  US  Customs-Trade  Partnership  Against 
Terrorism  (C-TPAT)  initiative,  EU  Authorised  Economic 
Operator  (AEO)  Program,  and  we  actively  work  with  various 
governments  and  authorities  around  the  world  to  counter 
any  act  that  would  impinge  upon  maritime  or  cargo  security. 
Under  our  policy,  we  have  internal  security  checks  to  all  of 
its holdings and our security profile has been validated by the 
US  Customs  and  Border  Protection  agency  through  physical 
checks  of  the  offices  and  facilities  of  the  Group  including 
terminals, warehouses, depots and vessels.

Our  company  meets  the  International  Ship  and  Port  Facility 
Security Code (ISPS Code), which ensures that security threats 
are detected and assessed and preventive measures are in place 
on  our  vessels  and  at  our  port  facilities.  A  designated  officer 
on each ship and at each port facility reports to the Company 
Security  Officer  who  oversees  the  security  plans,  drills  and 
training.  With  this  in  place,  all  our  vessels  continue  to  have 
an exemplary record containing zero breaches of security and 
clean  detention  records.  In  addition,  to  provide  world-class 
quality  and  secure  information  to  customers  and  partners, 
our Global Data Centre has also achieved and maintained ISO 
27001 certification.

OOCL  has  been  certified  as  a  “Partners  in  Protection”  (PIP) 
carrier  by  the  Canada  Border  Services  Agency  (CBSA) 
Partners in Protection. It is a voluntary program established by 
the CBSA to enhance border security, combat organised crime 
and terrorism, detect and prevent contraband smuggling, and 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Corporate Responsibilityincrease  awareness  of  issues  to  secure  the  flow  of  legitimate 
goods  and  travelers  across  the  US-Canadian  border.  OOCL 
applies anti-piracy measures before our vessels transit through 
High  Risk  Areas  (HRA).  One  of  the  key  measures  is  to 
maintain  a  24-hour,  360-degree  anti-piracy  visual  and  radar 
watch and to deploy additional watch-keepers at the bridge and 
on deck while transiting the HRA to watch out for suspected 
pirate  vessels.  Physical  measures  are  also  utilised  onboard, 
such as barbed wires, spikes, and night vision binoculars. Close 
communication  is  always  maintained  between  ships  and  our 
Fleet  Management  Department  (FMD)  office.  FMD’s  24-hour 
emergency  hotline  is  always  on  standby  mode  in  the  case  of 
any emergency.

Traditionally,  antivirus  and  malware  detection  software 
would  provide  a  boost  to  our  computer  security  by  helping 
our  computers  stay  away  from  being  ‘infected’.  But  as  the 
development  of  the  Internet  is  becoming  more  sophisticated 
than ever, signature-based virus/malware detection tools alone 
are no longer sufficient today.

This  is  because  the  ‘Advanced  Persistent  Threat’,  a  set  of 
stealthy  and  continuous  computer  hacking  processes  often 
orchestrated  by  attackers  targeting  a  specific  entity  by  taking 
advantage  of  security  loopholes,  is  growing.  APT  has  been 
observed  to  target  organizations  and/or  nations  for  business, 
financial  and/or  political  motives.  ‘Corporate  Security 
Breaches’, ‘Email Spoofing’, ‘Spear Phishing’ and ‘Social Media 
Fraud’  are  some  of  the  common  types  of  cyber  attacks.  To 
boost  our  employee’s  knowledge  and  awareness  of  cyber 
security, new initiatives and programs have been developed to 
ensure everyone takes part in protecting our assets and become 
more  resilient  against  such  threats.  This  includes  an  annual 
cyber  security  training  and  mandatory  test  for  all  employees, 
monthly  knowledge  and  trend  updates,  and  sophisticated 
monitoring and protective systems.

Community and education
As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  the  Group  recognizes 
that  the  societies  in  which  its  employees  live  and  work 
contribute  greatly  to  the  company’s  overall  success.  Care  for 
these  communities  in  which  it  operates  is  therefore  a  major 
corporate  focus.  The  Group  concentrates  its  community 
efforts on charity programs designed to provide well-rounded 
youth  education,  charity  relief  to  the  needy,  and  cultural 
entertainment to the whole community.

OOCL  employees  across  the  world  are  encouraged  to  give 
something back to the communities in which they live through 
charitable  activities  such  as  fundraising  and  volunteering  by 
dedicating their time and efforts to help others in need.

Some  of  the  areas  where  the  charity  donations  were  made 
by  the  Group  and  its  employees  include:  education,  social 
services,  orphanages,  elderly  homes,  schools,  children’s 

26 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

hospitals,  cancer  research,  multiple  sclerosis,  and  diabetes 
research.  In  addition  to  financial  donations,  the  Group  also 
contributes  in  kind.  We  offer  transportation  and  logistics 
support  to  send  relief  to  the  affected  areas.  Assistance  in  the 
form  of  free  transportation  is  often  given  to  a  number  of 
charitable  projects  including  transporting  medical  diagnostic 
equipment and supplies from the US to China to care for those 
children who need urgent treatments.

In  keeping  with  the  Group’s  long  tradition  in  supporting 
education, the Group, in partnership with The Tung Foundation, 
committed  more  than  US$548,000  in  2015  to  scholarships 
through  The  Tung  OOCL  Scholarship  for  students  and  our 
employees’ children.

In  2015,  forty  OOCL  vessels  participated  in  the  Hong  Kong 
Voluntary Observing Ship (HKVOS) program by the Hong Kong 
Observatory  (HKO)  to  gather  and  provide  marine  climatology 
data  needed  to  help  identify  prevailing  weather  conditions  for 
preparing forecasts and warnings to the maritime community.

To  recognise  vessels’  outstanding  efforts  in  volunteering  their 
time  to  help  improve  maritime  safety,  the  HKO  presented 
two  ‘Diamond  Awards’,  two  ‘Platinum  Awards’,  and  two  ‘Gold 
Awards’ to a total of six OOCL vessels on 16th June 2015.

Apart from the quantity of the reports made, OOCL California 
and OOCL Guangzhou were also presented with participation 
certificates  jointly  issued  by  the  World  Meteorological 
Organization  (WMO)  and  Intergovernmental  Oceanographic 
Commission  of  UNESCO  (IOC)  for  the  high  quality  of  the 
reports  sent.  According  to  the  HKO,  observational  data 
received  from  these  ships  in  the  Voluntary  Observing  Ship 
Scheme  Climate  Fleet  (VOSClim)  are  highly  valued  by  the 
international  scientific  community  for  climate  research  and 
climate change studies.

As  a  Hong  Kong-based  shipping  company,  OOCL  has  been 
committed  to  working  with  the  HKO  in  various  projects  and 
contribute  to  their  safety  and  climate  research.  In  June  2015, 
OOCL  assisted  HKO  to  conduct  two  new  studies  that  make 
use  of  our  vessels  to  enhance  meteorological  observations 
over  the  South  China  Sea.  During  its  voyage  from  Hong 
Kong  to  Singapore  on  OOCL  Busan,  seven  weather  balloons 
carrying radiosondes were launched from a portable upper-air 
sounding  system  to  collect  meteorological  data  such  as  air 
temperature,  humidity,  wind  direction  and  wind  speed  in 
the  upper  atmosphere  over  the  South  China  Sea.  In  another 
project,  a  drifter  buoy  equipped  with  air  pressure  and  sea 
surface temperature sensors was deployed from OOCL Atlanta 
over the central part of the South China Sea. The buoy, carried 
along  by  ocean  currents  over  a  data-sparse  sea  area,  was 
able  to  take  insitu  air  pressure  and  sea  surface  temperature 
measurements  and  transmitted  the  data  to  the  HKO  via 
satellite on an hourly basis.

Corporate Responsibility
