BOARD OF DIRECTORS

C   C   T U N G

T S A N N   R O N G   C H A N G

Mr Tung, aged 59, was appointed Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of OOIL
since October 1996. Mr Tung chairs the Executive  Committee  and  serves  on  the Investment Committee of the Board of OOIL.
He is also Chairman or Director of various subsidiary companies of  OOIL.  Mr Tung graduated from the University of Liverpool, England, where he received his Bachelor of Science degree and acquired a Master   s degree in  Mechanical  Engineering  at  the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the United States. Mr Tung is a non executive Independent Director of Chekiang First Bank
Ltd  a non executive Director of Bank of China Hong Kong  Ltd, Sing Tao Holdings Limited,

Zhejiang Expressway Co Ltd and PetroChina
Co Ltd. Mr Tung was a Chairman of Hong Kong Shipowner   s Association between 1993 1995, a Chairman of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce between 1999 2001.
He is a Chairman of the Hong Kong America Center  Chairman of the Institute for Shipboard Education Foundation  Chairman of the Court and a member of the Council of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University  a member of the Hong Kong Port and Maritime Board Board of Trustees of the University of Pittsburg and a member of Board of Visitors of School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University.

Mr Chang, aged 62, has been a Director of OOIL since 1988 and is a Director of several OOIL subsidiary companies. He is a member of the OOIL Executive Committee and Finance Committee. Mr Chang is a qualified CPA in Taiwan and holds an MBA degree from Indiana State University, USA. Mr Chang has served the Group in various capacities for 33 years and is currently the Chief Executive Officer of OOCLL.

ORIENT OVERSEAS  INTERNATIONAL  LIMITED

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

R O G E R   K I N G

R O B E RT   H   S U A N

Mr King, aged 61, was Managing Director and  Chief  Operating  Officer  of  Orient
Overseas  Holdings  Limited     OOHL     for the period September 1985 to January 1987 and a Director from 1983 until 1992. He has been a Director of OOIL since 1992 and is also a Director of certain of its subsidiary companies. He has become a non executive Director of OOIL followed his appointment in  August  1999  as  President  and  Chief Executive  Officer  of  Sa  Sa  International
Holdings Limited, a listed company in Hong Kong, one of the largest cosmetics retailers in Hong Kong. Mr King is a graduate of the University of Michigan, New York University
and Harvard Business School. Prior to joining OOHL in 1974 he served in the United States 
Navy and worked in computer research and management  consultancy.  Mr  King  is  a Director of a number of other companies including Arrow Electronics Corporation, a company  listed  on  the  New  York  Stock Exchange and a non executive Director of WellNet Holdings Limited, a listed company in Hong Kong. He is also the former Executive Chairman of System pro Computers Limited, one of the largest personal computer retailers in Hong Kong. Mr King also serves on a number of advisory committees, including Hong Kong Management Association, Hong
Kong University of Science and Technology
and the Zhejiang Province People   s Political Consultative  Conference.  Mr  King  is  the brother in law of Mr C C Tung.

Mr Suan, aged 62, appointed a Director of OOIL since May 1997. He is a member of OOIL Finance Committee. Mr Suan is the Managing  Director  of  Orient  Overseas
Developments Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of OOIL, which is the holding company for the Group   s China investments. Mr Suan has been with the Group for 32 years, has held various positions involving US investments, real estate and shipping related activities. He holds a Ph.D. in civil engineering from the University of London and was educated in the United Kingdom. Mr Suan is married to a cousin of Mr C C Tung.

ORIENT OVERSEAS  INTERNATIONAL  LIMITED

N I C H O L A S   D   S I M S

S I M O N   M U R R AY

D R   V I C T O R   K   F U N G

Mr Sims, aged 48, has been a Director and the Chief Financial Officer of OOIL since October  2000.  Mr  Sims  was  previously Managing Director of Wayfoong Shipping
Services, a member of HSBC Group responsible for ship finance business throughout the Asia Pacific region. Mr Sims joined HSBC in 1973 and served the international banking group in Hong Kong and London. He serves on the OOIL  Executive  Committee,  the  Finance Committee, the Investment Committee and the Audit Committee of the Board of OOIL and  is  a  Director  of  various  subsidiary companies of OOIL.

Mr Murray, CBE, aged 61, has been a non executive Director of OOIL since 1992 and was from 1989 until 1992 a non executive Director of OOHL. He serves on the Investment Committee and the Audit Committee of OOIL.
He  is  currently  the  Chairman  of  General Enterprise Management Services Limited, a private equity fund management company sponsored by Simon Murray And Associates.
He is also a Director of a number of public companies including Hutchison Whampoa Limited and Cheung Kong Holdings Limited.
Mr Murray is a member of the Former Directors Committee of the Community Chest of Hong Kong and is involved in a number of other charitable organisations including Save The Children  Fund  and  The  China  Coast
Community Association.

Dr Fung, CBE, aged 56, has been a non executive Director of OOIL since July 1996.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee of OOIL. Dr Fung is Chairman of the Li   Fung Group, the Hong Kong Airport Authority and the Hong Kong University Council. He is also a member of the Hong Kong Government Judicial Officers Recommendation Committee.
Dr Fung holds a Bachelor of Science and a Master  of  Science  degree  in  electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a doctorate from Harvard University. Dr Fung was Chairman of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council from 1991 to September 2000.

ORIENT OVERSEAS  INTERNATIONAL  LIMITED

Information Technology

We lead the industry in the application of IT.

We will continue to commit ourselves to the innovative and effective 
use of technology to provide superior transport and 
logistics solutions to our customers.

